A final act of this section is called basic phrases and it's an app designed to allow you to say basic
phrases in the language so we're just going to take a brief break from our hard coding and see how we
create the layout that we're going to need using a grid layout similar to the one that we created in
the connect 3 app.
We're going to have eight basic phrases in our out.
So that means we want a grid which is too along by a four tool and each of those is going to have a
button.
So if you want to consider this a challenge to create that layout using a grid layout want eight buttons
two by four.
If you're coming from a previous version of Android studio it's actually quite a bit easier to do with
Android Studio 3 because you don't need to be so careful about which row and column each button is in
could just list them in order and they will fill up the gradely out from top to bottom and left or right.
So let's get going.
We'll add a great layout.
Which by default will fill almost the whole screen which is fine for our purposes.
Add in some constraints and then set the number of rows and columns.
I always do very fast even though I see comes before El.
So the right count is for the column count
is to and then similar to what we did.
When they connect three up we bring in a button which will always get into the habit of dragging into
the the top left.
And then let's see what happens if we copy and paste the text for that button a few times.
OK.
So you can see it is laying it out correctly according to the grid.
And if we keep going.
It will fill up the two by four grid lay out that we've specified.
But we want our buttons to fill the screen.
Now as always there's a number of ways that we can do that but I'm going to show you a nice and easy
way using gravity which is not something that we've used much safer.
So let me show you how we can use gravity to fill up the available space.
So we just set lay out
gravity.
And often we use this to specify whether we want it to be on the left right top or bottom but we're
going to go for Phil and this will then fill the hole space available to the bottom three that we also
need to get rid of the width and height there.
And then we need to specify how many rows and columns we want this button to take up and we can specify
that using Android lay out right to wait.
And we wanted to take up a row of one by one right.
And similarly we wanted to take up one column so when there's only one button that it will spread to
the whole of the grid layout.
But when we add more buttons.
So now we have a nicely filled griddle out of just two by one.
Now we're up to a two by two.
So let's add in fact I can copy all of those
and paste another four in and now I have the layout which I'm looking for which was two by four.
I've got various problems with IDS and I haven't done any own methods but those will set in the next
video for now.
We've got a that we wanted.
And it's actually quite a common one to aim for but a tricky one if you don't know about gravity Phil
and Roy wait and call them wait.
So now that we've covered those let's jump in the next video to actually making our basic phrases AB.